FEAT-#7445: metrics interface so third-parties can collect metrics from the modin frontend (#7444)
modin-project/modin: docs/usage_guide/advanced_usage/modin_metrics.rst

Modin Metrics
=============

Modin allows for third-party systems to register a metrics handler to collect specific API statistics.
Metrics have a name and a value, can be aggregated, discarded, or emitted without impact to the program.

> CPU load, memory usage, and disk usage are all typical metrics; but for modin metrics are current 
> collected on API timings which can be used to optimize end-user interactive performance. New metrics may 
> be added in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU load, memory usage, and disk usage are all typical metrics; but modin currently only emits metrics on API timings which can be used to optimize end-user interactive performance. New metrics may 
be added in the future.
```

> It is the responsibility of the handler to process or forward these metrics. The name of the metric must 

Reviewer 2: Should we include an example of the metric format?

Author: done

> It is the responsibility of the handler to process or forward these metrics. The name of the metric must 

Reviewer 2: Is naming the metric is Modin's responsibility, or the caller's? If it's the former, maybe we just want to say what the metrics will look like.

Author: Added examples in the docs

be in "dot format" and all lowercase, similar to graphite or rrd. The value is an integer or float.

Handlers are functions of the form: `fn(str, int|float)` and can be registered with:

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.logging.metrics import add_metric_handler

  def func(name: str, value: int | float):
    print(f"Got metric {name} value {value}")

  add_metric_handler(func)

.. warning:: 
  A metric handler should be non-blocking, returning within 100ms, although this is not enforced. It must not throw exceptions or it will
  be deregistered. These restrictions are to help guard against the implementation of a metrics collector which would impact
  interactice performance significantly. The data from metrics should generally be offloaded to another system for processing

>   and not involve any direct network calls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and not involve any blocking network calls.
```

Example metric names include:

* 'modin.core-dataframe.pandasdataframe.copy_index_cache'
* 'modin.core-dataframe.pandasdataframe.transpose'
* 'modin.query-compiler.pandasquerycompiler.transpose'
* 'modin.query-compiler.basequerycompiler.columnarize'
* 'modin.pandas-api.series.__init__'
* 'modin.pandas-api.dataframe._reduce_dimension'
* 'modin.pandas-api.dataframe.sum'

Handlers are functions of the form: `fn(str, int|float)` and can be registered with:

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.logging.metrics import add_metric_handler

  def func(name: str, value: int | float):
    print(f"Got metric {name} value {value}")

  add_metric_handler(func)

.. warning:: 
  A metric handler should be non-blocking, returning within 100ms, although this is not enforced. It must not throw exceptions or it will
  be deregistered. These restrictions are to help guard against the implementation of a metrics collector which would impact
  interactice performance significantly. The data from metrics should generally be offloaded to another system for processing
  and not involve any blocking network calls.

> Disable Modin metrics like so:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metrics are enabled by default. Modin metrics can be disabled like so:
```

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: python
```

be added in the future.

It is the responsibility of the handler to process or forward these metrics. The name of the metric will 
be in "dot format" and all lowercase, similar to graphite or rrd. The value is an integer or float.

Example metric names include:

* 'modin.core-dataframe.pandasdataframe.copy_index_cache'
* 'modin.core-dataframe.pandasdataframe.transpose'
* 'modin.query-compiler.pandasquerycompiler.transpose'
* 'modin.query-compiler.basequerycompiler.columnarize'
* 'modin.pandas-api.series.__init__'
* 'modin.pandas-api.dataframe._reduce_dimension'
* 'modin.pandas-api.dataframe.sum'

Handlers are functions of the form: `fn(str, int|float)` and can be registered with:

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.logging.metrics import add_metric_handler

  def func(name: str, value: int | float):
    print(f"Got metric {name} value {value}")

  add_metric_handler(func)

.. warning:: 
  A metric handler should be non-blocking, returning within 100ms, although this is not enforced. It must not throw exceptions or it will
  be deregistered. These restrictions are to help guard against the implementation of a metrics collector which would impact

>   interactice performance significantly. The data from metrics should generally be offloaded to another system for processing

Reviewer 4: interactice > interactive
